Commerce System


Merrill: I know you're in the Merchants Guild, Varric, but I've never seen your shop.
Varric: We're not that kind of merchant, Daisy.
Merrill: What kind are you, then?
Varric: House Tethas invests in... you're not going to understand a word of this financial stuff, are you?
Merrill: Not a word, no. But I promise to pay close attention anyway!
Varric: Right. In that case, we have lots of shops. But they're invisible. Only dwarves and accountants can see them.
 - 9:31, 9:34 or 9:37 Dragon


A great deal of Thedas is interlinked by a network of trade and the flow of money and information, which is reguarly
referenced in the background of the two games. This system seeks to make sure that this shade of the universe is in place
and interactive, allowing the player a means to spend gold to aquire gold. Therefore whilst it is not as important as the
prestige system, it is complimentary. Tied into this are the playable merchant groups: the Free Marcher city states, the
Merchant Guilds of Antiva and beyond, the Crime Syndicates, Slavers and Pirates that deal directly with the veins of the
continent. Each of these specific examples have a sub system below.

In general the aim of this system is to tie in all players to the regular flow of gold, rather than the flow being just
from the player to his holdings, or the upkeep of his soldiers alone. It means that areas of the world interact directly
without having to go via the Political status of the world above, but still effected by it. It's an entirely new theatre
in which to compete - albeit just as bloodthirsty and a marked amount less flowery. This system also relies on contacts
rather than friends and foes, meaning that gold exchanges hands but through other local merchants who make deals - and
abstract options for a safer and garunteed sale.

  An Example:
  The lord in Ferelden sells slaves to a crime syndicate in the capital, who ships them to a merchant in the Free Marches.
  He hires a pirate to take the goods from Ostwick to Tevinter, where the final sale is made and the money is divided
  between the merchant and the pirate.
  


Free Marcher City States - King Level Republic(?)
These are actually a troubling group to impliment, as we have to choose between gender equality and the trade post system.
Luckily it appears the GoT mod folks have asked Paradox to impliment yearly elections for republics as an option, which
may allow us to tailor a good system. Until then, suggestion is a highly flavoured form of Elective Monarchy.

Merchant Guilds - Duke Level Republic
These little states are incredibly numerous and spread across Thedas, serving the important function of the middle class.
They are a cut throat bunch, whose primary goal in life is acquiring two things: gold, or a noble title. In game, they
are the market and source for a lot of goods and services a noble might need, and provide the characters for most
commerce events. As stated, they will do everything they can to scam or impress their way	into a permanent position, at 
which point they assimilate into the minor nobility.

Crime Syndicates - City Landed Mercenaries
These folks are similar to the Merchants, but with even less to lose, and no interest in rising to the top. Politics is
ugly, pomp and ceremony are boring. Gold, blood and violence is all that one needs. Crime Lords are a nuisance, often
coming into play for characters who with to indulge in illegal or downright dirty opportunities, or who cross someone
else who is. Unplayable, the butt of all 'evil' low tier actions and events, and entirely there to provide depth and a
foil for clean politics.

Slavers - Merchants without Morals
This is a fact of life in Thedas, although in most southern states it is largely illegal and frowned upon. In states
where Slavery is legal, then 'slavers' are simply merchants	and nobles who take advantage of the open market to traffic
cargo around. However, slavery as an institution is very profitable and all characters who are willing to look will
find someone who knows someone who can get them some coin for their elf servants. These are characters above with the
relevant traits, who will form the forefront of all events aimed at procuring, selling or moving slaves around a state
illegally. In cases where there simply are no characters who can take part, it will be available as a more generic
option regardless. Slaves are good coin, after all.
	
Pirates - People without Morals who also have Boats
Another flavour of merchant republic that preys on the open waters of the Amaranthine Coastlines. Isabella isn't alone,
you know. Pirates are the characters who act upon	the deals made with Crime Lords, who take profits from Merchant Houses
who lose ships, who hang around on Estwatch and get shitfaced. Just like slavers, Pirates are the means	to which naval
intrigue is carried out by Crime Lords, and just like slavers if none are	available then they are also represented as an
abstract. They steal things. Through these guys, other entities such as the Orlesian Navy interact with the Commerce
System.

