Magi System

Wynne: What you said before, Morrigan... about the Circle of Magi being a leash... do you truly believe that?
Morrigan: Only a fool would think otherwise.
Wynne: You would prefer a world where young mages were slain by the ignorant for their talent? Taught to fear their abilities?
Morrigan: That is what the Circle teaches. You fear your abilities, instead of reveling in them.
Wynne: Believing ourselves to be superior over other men is what led to the Imperium... and the darkspawn.
Morrigan: (scoffs) I cannot believe you give credence to such drivel.
Wynne: Those who do not heed the lessons of history are doomed to repeat them.
Morrigan: Then you need look no further than the elves for an example of what occurs when you allow others to hold your leash.


Magic is a difficult thing to impliment properly. Most playable characters are going to be Chantry, and thus only see
mages rarely, or as Abominations in their lands, or even as stolen family members due to a genetic quirk. However in
Tevinter and potentially everywhere else as well, Mages have the potential to become landowners under the right situations.
Ergo, they need playable characteristics. They need to simultaniously be powerful, dangerous and to a certain extent a
danger to themselves, too.

Therefore, mages are going to have the following solid advantages:

  Access to Mage only events that provide shortcuts to greater power or skill, through the fade.
  More devestating opportunities to hurt people during plots.
  Instinctive power during combat events.
  The potential to learn forbidden magics which are balanced only by the danger.
  Their abilities being an inheritable trait, giving them a large chance of having their children also be mages.
  
Whereas they will also have some massive problems:

  Temptation. It's always there, in events, in decisions, always giving you the option to just give in.
  Events that punish you if you resist temptation without being willful.
  There are always people who hate Mages, and depending on your realm, you may be hunted, watched or simply cut down.
  If you fail in casting spells, you are vulnerable to the deziens of the fade. Little room for mistakes.
  
Mages are not randomly generated except in a Magiocracy or via the Circle, the only other way to become one is through
luck and a lax system. It is possible to hide your mage status, but this is never a certain measure - the Templars are
always watching.

